Headless Authn: documentation (#23272)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/guides/headless-login.mdx

---
title: Headless WebAuthn (Preview)
description: Headless WebAuthn
---

<Notice type="warning">
  Headless WebAuthn is currently in Preview mode.
</Notice>

> Headless WebAuthn provides a secure way to authenticate with WebAuthn from a machine without access to a WebAuthn device. This enables use cases which are usually not with WebAuthn

Reviewer: The last sentence here doesn't read quite right.

_which are usually not with WebAuthn features_

  In the future, Headless WebAuthn will be extended to other `tsh` commands.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

- A v12.2+ Teleport cluster with WebAuthn configured.
  See the [Second Factor: WebAuthn](./webauthn.mdx) guide.
- WebAuthn hardware device, such as YubiKey.
- A Web browser with [WebAuthn support](
  https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/).

## Step 1/3. Configuration

A v12.2+ Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of Headless WebAuthn without any additional configuration.

### Optional: Make Headless WebAuthn the default login connector

To make Headless WebAuthn the default authentication method for your Teleport Cluster, add `connector_name: headless` to your cluster configuration.

Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: headless # headless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```

> ### Optional: Disable Headless WebAuthn

Author: I Changed these to collapsible tabs and changed the wording for this one from "Optional" to "Alternative".

- WebAuthn hardware device, such as YubiKey or SoloKey.
- A Web browser with [WebAuthn support](
  https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/).

A Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of Headless Login.

## Step 1/2. Initiate Headless Login

Run a headless tsh command with the `--headless` flag. This will initiate headless login, printing a URL and `tsh` command.

```code
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=example --user=user
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=dev --proxy=proxy.example.com:3080 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
```

## Step 2/2. Approve Headless Login

To approve the headless login, go to the URL in your local web browser or enter the `tsh` command in your local terminal. You will be prompted to approve the login with WebAuthn verification. Once approved, your initial `tsh --headless <command>` should continue as if you had logged in locally.

## Additional Options

### Set Headless login as default

> To make headless login the default authentication method for your Teleport Cluster, add `connector_name: headless` to your cluster configuration:

Reviewer: I'm confused by this. 

1. Don't we use type to specify the default type of login?
2. Headless is not a connector, so connector_name seems a strange choice of name.

Author: Headless is a connector in the same way that [Passwordless is a connector](https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/guides/passwordless/?scope=enterprise#optional-enable-passwordless-by-default), while WebAuthn is the underlying authentication type.

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      connector_name: headless # headless by default
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</ScopedBlock>

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: headless # headless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</ScopedBlock>

### Set environment variable

Users can also set the following environment variables to reduce the number of flags passed to `tsh`:

* `TELEPORT_PROXY` (string)
* `TELEPORT_USER` (string)
* `TELEPORT_HEADLESS` (bool)

### Disable Headless Login

> By default, Headless Login is available on cluster's with WebAuthn configured. If you want to forbid headless login to your cluster, add `headless: false` to your configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Headless Login is enabled automatically when WebAuthn is configured. If you want to forbid headless login to your cluster, add `headless: false` to your configuration:
```

---
title: Headless Login (Preview)
description: Headless Login
---

## Introduction

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">
  Headless Login is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

> Headless Login provides Teleport users with a secure way to authenticate with WebAuthn from a remote machine. This enables use cases which usually are not compatible with WebAuthn features, such as:

Reviewer: I feel like we should specifically mention that this is useful in environments where a browser is not available.

Reviewer: Yeah, that works.

    `tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      connector_name: headless # headless by default
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</ScopedBlock>

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: headless # headless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</ScopedBlock>

### Set environment variable

Users can also set the following environment variables to reduce the number of flags passed to `tsh`:

- `TELEPORT_PROXY` (string)
- `TELEPORT_USER` (string)

> - `TELEPORT_HEADLESS` (bool)

Reviewer: Technically environment variables are all strings. I would probably remove the "type" from these lines.

---
title: Headless Login (Preview)
description: Headless Login
---

## Introduction

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">
  Headless login is currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

> Headless login provides Teleport users with a secure way to authenticate with WebAuthn from a remote machine. This enables use cases which usually are not compatible with WebAuthn features, such as:

Reviewer 2: This description indicates an advantage of headless login, but I'm left wondering what the nature of the feature is. 

Usually, I interpret "headless" as meaning "without a GUI". Yet users could always log in to Teleport without a GUI via `tsh`, so I think we need a more explicit description of how this feature works/what it is to avoid misconceptions.

Would it be more accurate to say this is "Headless WebAuthn Login", or simply "Headless WebAuthn"?

Author: @jakule I think I failed to ping you in the comment above as I accidentally included my response in the quoted section.

Reviewer 3: @r0mant WDYT?

Author: @klizhentas @xinding33 Can you please help use decide on a final product name? Then I can make sure we have the name standardized across user facing components before we release the feature next week.

Some potential options are:
 - Headless Login
 - Headless Authentication
 - Headless WebAuthn
 - Headless SSO

> Headless login provides Teleport users with a secure way to authenticate with WebAuthn from a remote machine. This enables use cases which usually are not compatible with WebAuthn features, such as:

Author: The primary use case is connecting to Teleport from a remote dev box / cloud instance with WebAuthn. I've changed the wording to `a machine without access to a WebAuthn device`, which would include machines without WebAuthn-compatible browser support or remote machines.

- Logging into Teleport with WebAuthn from a remote dev box
- Connecting to a Teleport Node from a remote dev box with Per-session MFA 
- Performing `tsh scp` from one Teleport Node to another with Per-session MFA
- Logging into Teleport on a machine without a WebAuthn compatible browser

<Admonition type="note" title="Headless Login Support">

>   Headless login only supports following `tsh` commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Headless login only supports the following `tsh` commands:
```

  
  - `tsh ls`
  - `tsh ssh`
  - `tsh scp`

>   In the future, headless login may be extended to other `tsh` commands.

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
  In the future, headless login will be extended to other `tsh` commands.
```

</Admonition>

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer 3: Can you also add a note that min supported version is v12.2, so headless doesn't work with every v12 release?

- A Teleport cluster with WebAuthn configured.
  See the [Second Factor: WebAuthn](./webauthn.mdx) guide.

> - WebAuthn hardware device, such as YubiKey or SoloKey.

Reviewer 3: We've never tested it with SoloKey. I'd avoid putting it in our docs
```suggestion
- WebAuthn hardware device, such as YubiKey.
```

Author: These Pre-reqs are shared with WebAuthn and other WebAuthn features - https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/guides/webauthn/#prerequisites

It definitely should work with SoloKey since it's just WebAuthn at the end, and I think we should keep the docs consistent.

- A Web browser with [WebAuthn support](
  https://developers.yubico.com/WebAuthn/WebAuthn_Browser_Support/).

> A Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of Headless login.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if I understand it. First, your cluster needs to be v12.2, so not any cluster is capable.

Author: The point is that Headless will automatically work if WebAuthn is configured. I can add the v12.2 caveot.

> A v12.2+ Teleport cluster capable of WebAuthn is automatically capable of Headless login.

Reviewer 2: > Headless login.

We should use either "Headless Login" or "headless login" (i.e., this is either a proper name or not).

## Step 1/2. Initiate headless login

> Run a headless tsh command with the `--headless` flag. This will initiate headless login, printing a URL and `tsh` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run a headless `tsh` command with the `--headless` flag. This will initiate headless login, printing a URL and `tsh` command.
```

```code

> $ tsh ls --headless --proxy=example --user=user

Reviewer 3: Our other docs use different names. I think that we should/try to be consistent.
```suggestion
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com  --user=alice
```

# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
```

> ## Step 2/2. Approve headless Login

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2/2. Approve headless login
```

> To approve the headless login, go to the URL in your local web browser or enter the `tsh` command in your local terminal. You will be prompted to approve the login with WebAuthn verification. Once approved, your initial `tsh --headless <command>` should continue as if you had logged in locally.

Reviewer 3: I'd explicitly mention that the URL is printed by `tsh` and needs to be copied and pasted in our browser. I'd also double-check which browser do we support.

Author: "A Web browser with WebAuthn support" is one of the prerequisites.

> Unlike a standard login session, headles login sessions are only available for the lifetime of a single `tsh` request. This means that for each `tsh --headless` command, you will need to go through the headless login flow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike a standard login session, headless login sessions are only available for the lifetime of a single `tsh` request. This means that for each `tsh --headless` command, you will need to go through the headless login flow:
```

```code 
$ tsh ls --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 86172f78-af7c-5935-a7c1-ed06b94f17dc
# # User approves through link
# Node Name Address        Labels                                                                             
# --------- -------------- -----------
# server01  127.0.0.1:3022 arch=x86_64
#
$ tsh ssh --headless --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=alice server01
# Complete headless authentication in your local web browser:
# 
# https://proxy.example.com:3080/web/headless/864cccd9-2425-46d9-a9f2-636387e66ebf
# 
# or execute this command in your local terminal:
# 
# tsh headless approve --user=alice --proxy=proxy.example.com 864cccd9-2425-46d9-a9f2-636387e66ebf
# # User approves through link
```

> ## Additional Options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Additional options
```

We use sentence case for headings

> ### Set headless login as default

Reviewer 2: So far, all instructions have been specific to end-users, i.e., they use `tsh`. The "Additional options" section is where we include configuration instructions for Teleport operators.

Since this is not an end-user guide (i.e., it's not in the "Connect your Client" section), I think we should restructure it so that these configuration options are part of the main step-by-step flow.

Author: The structure is based off the [passwordless guide](https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/guides/passwordless/) since it is a similar WebAuthn-enhancing feature that does not require any additional configuration. 

In most use cases, Teleport operators would not want to set headless as the default, which is why this is under additional options rather than the standard setup steps, so I'd refrain from highlighting it at the beginning of the guide where it may be confused as essential configuration.

Author: That being said, I took a stab at restructuring it with the optional configuration at the top. Let me know what you think.

To make headless login the default authentication method for your Teleport Cluster, add `connector_name: headless` to your cluster configuration:

> <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

Reviewer 2: It's worth noting that users tend not to realize that you can switch scopes in the docs. We should reserve `ScopedBlock` components for situations where it's okay if a user reads the page with the wrong scope selected (i.e., minor cosmetic differences). 

What would you think of including only the dynamic configuration example in the how-to guide—since this works for all Teleport deployments—and making sure the configuration reference (`docs/pages/reference/config.mdx`) mentions this setting so users who need a static config know how to set it?

    Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
    `tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

    ```yaml
    kind: cluster_auth_preference
    version: v2
    metadata:
      name: cluster-auth-preference
    spec:
      type: local
      second_factor: "on"
      webauthn:
        rp_id: example.com
      connector_name: headless # headless by default
    ```

    Update the configuration:

    ```code
    $ tctl create -f cap.yaml
    # cluster auth preference has been updated
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
</ScopedBlock>

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using
`tctl get cluster_auth_preference`:

```yaml
kind: cluster_auth_preference
version: v2
metadata:
  name: cluster-auth-preference
spec:
  type: local
  second_factor: "on"
  webauthn:
    rp_id: example.com
  connector_name: headless # headless by default
```

Update the configuration:

```code
$ tctl create -f cap.yaml
# cluster auth preference has been updated
```
</ScopedBlock>

### Set environment variable

Users can also set the following environment variables to reduce the number of flags passed to `tsh`:

- `TELEPORT_PROXY`
- `TELEPORT_USER`

> - `TELEPORT_HEADLESS`

Reviewer 3: Can you explain what each variable does and give some examples? Should I set them to 1, "on", true when I want to use them?

> - `export TELEPORT_USER=alice`

Reviewer 2: Since we already mention these variables in the CLI reference, I think it makes sense to remove this entire H3 subsection.

> ### Disable Headless login

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Disable headless login
```

Headless login is enabled automatically when WebAuthn is configured. If you want to forbid headless login to your cluster, add `headless: false` to your configuration:

> <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above re: `ScopedBlock`
